[Music]
once you start to develop a spiritual
relationship of your own understanding
you'll notice wild synchronicities in
your life you'll notice invisible doors
open for you and even though you're a
science guy you have a lot of god in
your life whether you realize it or not
because you wouldn't be sitting here
right now
being driven by this great force of
inspiration doing the major things that
you've done in this world if you hadn't
been tapped into that source in a way
that you understand okay so maybe you
find it through fitness maybe you
thought you know i'm sure that when
you're in in your in your mode in your
zone in that flow you feel a different
energy within you something i do oh
here's the thing
i love coming to consensus that is like
a deep drive within me but i also um
it
the truth is that the way that you and i
would translate it would be so different
yeah that in some ways it will have
different outcomes
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is the number one new york
times best-selling author who oprah
called a next generation thought leader
and the new york times dubbed a new role
model and those are not the only high
praised monikers being thrown her way
her inspiring social content an
incredible string of best-selling books
such as the universe has your back
spirit junkie and judgment detox have
seen her called a lot of names youtube
named her one of their 16 youtube next
video bloggers mashable said she's one
of the 11 must follow twitter accounts
for inspiration and forbes listed her as
one of the 20 best branded women alive
oprah named her to the supersoul 100
self-made magazine ranked her as one of
the top 50 women in business and dr oz
has had her on frequently as a guest
expert on his massively popular show
she's also an internationally
sought-after speaker who has motivated
audiences across many of the most
well-regarded universities around and
delivered memorable talks on some of the
most prestigious platforms in the world
including the ted stage and google's
lecture series she even co-hosted a
guinness world record setting group
meditation session with spiritual
luminary deepak chopra her insights into
the human condition and the steps for
bringing your dreams into reality have
seen her featured by virtually every
major media outlet there is including
pbs cnn the wall street journal people l
women's health and countless others so
please help me in welcoming the
best-selling author of super attractor
gabrielle bernstein
that's today's intro
it is an amazing string of
accomplishments so thank you so much i
know you talk a lot about doing things
out of service and really getting
yourself aligned and
you know not doing things for your own
sort of personal glory or satisfaction
but really stepping into something that
you think will help other people
and that is quite literally what lisa
and i have dedicated our lives to so it
is always interesting to dive into
somebody's world who has a similar view
and approach so yeah thank you for being
here yeah thank you
one of the things i want to talk about
and this is one of my favorite ideas
that you have is the notion that between
you and feeling better is a decision to
stop feeling bad
which gets into neurochemistry for me
and like the ability for us to
consciously shift our moods yeah
how does one
do that well first let's address the
viewer listener out there that's like
well i'm depressed or i'm broke or i'm
chronically ill
how could i decide to stop feeling bad
right let's just be real with that one
and uh
i want to give an example of what that
meant for me in my own life and so uh
recently about five months ago i just uh
was diagnosed with postpartum depression
anxiety and insomnia
you know having authored seven self-help
books and
having to to really fall to my knees and
realize that there was something really
happening here and the reason i was able
to find the right resources and doctors
and and even medication that i needed to
to live to survive to not you know not
do difficult things to myself
was uh because of this method because of
this belief system
even in my darkest moment even in the
deep depression i was able to say that
each day i could reach into what was a
better feeling experience so you would
think through what that looked like i
would celebrate the good stuff i would
say okay i slept one extra hour last
night or think thank god i have a
husband in child care that can support
me through this period or i am opening
up now to the possibility of taking
medication if i have to so even just
leading leading myself proactively into
a better feeling thought even if that
better feeling thought was still kind of
low vibe it was better than despair
right and so it is reconditioning your
your brain functioning but it's also a
spiritual act because
when we have those moments where we say
i'd like to see things differently
that's actually a prayer
right and the more often we do it we
change the neural pathways you talk
about thoughts taking form i found that
really interesting and i'm
this is a terrible way to say it but i'm
glad that you went through something so
profound because
i think there's a lot of legitimacy then
that's lent to that because
so lisa and i a dear friend of ours his
son just committed suicide and that
is so scary to me yeah that
you sort of believe that that
neurochemistry is going to last forever
right and if you're not taking steps to
get out of that whether it's going and
seeking professional help getting
medication
and certainly spending time to remind
yourself that these things are
ultimately changeable one way or the
other
it it becomes a sense of despair like
you said yeah and i think that you're
making a really good point which is that
that i am glad that this happened to me
particularly now that i'm feeling much
better but i can look back and say okay
that was that was divine work that was
intended that was no accident because
now i you know for i've been speaking
for 15 years on spiritual topics but i
was never fully i was probably part of
the stigma
you know i was like i was looking at my
audiences and saying like someone would
be like i'm depressed and i wouldn't
ever in a million years to get off your
medication or like that was not my style
but i would say things like well you
know you need to deepen your meditation
practice and there is actually a point
where your meditation practice just
doesn't work and that was the case for
me you know it's like when you're
dealing with a biochemical issue your
tools will no longer work and that was
exactly what happened for me and i love
that i can speak to that with
authenticity and i love that i can
really really look at mental illness
with so much more compassion
understanding and education than i would
have had i not been through this myself
and to speak publicly about the fact
that i had to go on medication
right when i was about to launch my
seventh self help book you know and that
it saved my life
yeah i love that that one thing that you
talked about
i forget where now but you were saying
you know i'm standing on stage and
somebody asks me um hey i feel like a
fraud i'm a life coach and i'm trying to
tell people how to do this and but i
feel like i have my own issues and you
were like girl i'm my own head case and
you know i've got the mic and my face is
on all these books but acknowledging
that yeah and processing through that is
sort of how i'm able to actually do
something useful for people that's right
walk us through the process the process
of how you in the midst of that despair
one can
remember that there are steps to getting
out and then two being able to frame it
in a way where you can have appreciation
for it yeah well
first is that throughout the last 20
years i've
really you know 15 to 20 years i've had
a really devotional faith practice and
uh faith of my own understanding really
believing that there is a higher power
working with me so even in the darkest
moments of despair getting sober at 25
it was that faith that led me into the
next right action uh remembering trauma
in 2016 it was the faith that got me out
of bed in the morning and out of that
desperation uh if we can i'm gonna sort
of pinpoint some mile markers you you
want to come back to the
remembering trauma yeah we can come back
i would love to understand that so it it
had been completely just forgotten you
weren't in touch with it at all but you
had sort of physical
yeah yeah would you like to go there
please okay here we go and i really want
to go there because we're all walking
around traumatized right let's be real
every single one of us has some kind of
trauma that's dictated the path of our
life and we are you know i have this 10
month old and i look at him and he's so
free he's so fierce and amazing and free
and every day i'm just like please stay
there as long as you can and you know
even the littlest things will help will
guide us to detour into fear and build
this pretense that we begin to develop
but then there's the the more severe
cases where someone has had sexual
trauma or or you know physical trauma or
mental you know mental abuse or whatever
it may have been that
you know really derails them
particularly as children what happens is
often when you're a child you're it's
almost too much for you to take on that
you dissociate and it's like your
brain's actually brilliant right the
brain just takes it and tucks it away
and says we're gonna store this over
here because it's too scary to face and
so i have no memories of my childhood
like zero
up to what age uh really i mean even i
really don't even remember much from
high school but but but but mainly like
the you know
you know infant to 15 or whatever it was
right
and i and i always had these sort of
imprinted memories of like visuals or
like the closet or you know just sort of
imprints that when i thought about them
i would be like my body wouldn't lie my
body was like
we're not going there you know and then
i had all these different symptoms
drug addiction i had uh
i had
work addiction tmj gut issues chronic
pain in my neck
uh these are all trauma symptoms okay um
and worst of all was this like desperate
need to be in control okay because if i
was in any way feeling out of control i
wouldn't feel safe
and a feeling that i couldn't trust
anyone okay so there's more there's more
than that but that's those are the big
ones and so i i was i was always just in
this like very frantic state and i
always thought like okay
i'm okay because i have faith and i have
god and i have all this and so i can
bring myself back bring myself back it
was this constant yo-yo of being so far
out and then coming back and so far out
and coming back and melting down and
coming back and listen you know as
exactly as it needed to be in that time
i probably wrote six books right but it
was it was it was difficult and then
around 2016 i started cracking into
something i was having like my whole
left side of my body went numb and i had
to have mris and it was stress induced
and and it was getting worse and worse
and then it was actually in la just down
the road my friend's house and that
night i had a dream where i remembered
being a child
having sexual trauma and then i remember
being an adult confronting it and when i
woke up it was the most real experience
i've ever had in a dream where i woke up
it was like that happened
and then what did i do i said
hell no i'm not looking at that goodbye
hell no
and then ultimately what happened was
days later i remembered it in a therapy
session and so
that that moment of remembering was the
scariest moment in my life but it was
the catalyst for my great healing and
the freedom that i have right now
sitting with you
i love your concepts around healing and
healing takes time and all that is how
does one begin that process so awareness
that yeah that seems like part of it yes
um
walk people through how to begin that
that journey yeah
whether they've realized a trauma or
just in general yeah exactly yeah so
ultimately i think
when we begin to identify the root cause
of our conditions
and we become conscious enough to look
at the places that scare us and say okay
you know i don't have a gut condition i
have a trauma condition or i don't have
an insomnia condition i have an anxiety
condition because of the way i was
brought up or whatever it is and we have
the bravery
to go to those places whether it be
through the guidance of a self-help book
or be through the guidance ideally of a
psychiatrist or a therapist or somebody
that can guide you or a counselor or a
support group
to look at those places or a 12-step
program and to do that inventory you
have this opportunity to recognize that
the conditions that you've placed upon
yourself are not the problem the root
cause is what's causing it and is what's
there and so the first step is to really
honor the wounds and really really
respect yourself for having the bravery
to even look at them
because so many people walk around
trigger triggered triggered trigger
trigger all day long trigger trigger
trigger little things out of control
they blow up you know this thing happens
they shut down and it's just all day
long constant triggers and the first
step to really healing that behavior and
that kind of fight-or-flight lifestyle
really is to begin by recognizing that
there's something underneath it
that's the first step
so you begin to recognize there's
something there you're in the yoyo mode
of you're able to rebalance but
something then will re-trigger you and
it pulls you way out you rebalance again
but then it pulls you way out how do you
begin to get to the point where
either you're pulled less far out you're
pulled out less frequently
how do you then take that next step
great on that journey that's a great
question so in my recovery from
remembering the trauma it's been four
years now i have
done a deep dive of
lots of therapy and emdr therapy which i
highly recommend never heard of that oh
come on really emdr yes yes yes you're
going to want to do this i mean everyone
could benefit from it
it's eye movement desensitization and
reprocessing and it's um you hold either
buzzers in your hand that buzz buzz buzz
buzz or in your ears buzz buzz buzz or
you would have someone you know going
like this back and forth your eyes are
going back and forth and while you're
buzzing you're going into the emotional
disturbance so you're making someone's
asking you questions you have you have a
therapist as an emdr trained therapist
guiding you
and they're they're helping you identify
like what is the what what is the uh the
direction we're gonna go in today right
what is what's the trigger that we're
gonna touch today and it may not be like
you go right into the trauma you
actually could be going into the guilt
that you have right now and much like
emotional freedom technique are you
familiar with tapping nope
uh yes tapping vaguely okay so i teach
tapping i can speak you know more from
that standpoint but uh similar emdr
untapping it's like the issue is like a
tabletop and once you kick out one leg
that's an aspect of that issue the next
leg kicks out the next leg kicks and
then it starts to dissolve right or the
table falls so in the case of emdr you
can go into these different disturbances
and you can really address them
while buzzing and then the buzzing
you'll be what does that buzzing do it's
a bilateral brain functioning so it's
it's it's unlocking the amygdala
ultimately so what was found was that
when there's that that stimulant that's
that's stimulating both sides of the
brain while you're talking about the
emotional disturbance there's an
unlocking that occurs and when you say
it unlocks the amygdala are you trying
to reactivate the amygdala well no in
some cases i think what's happening is
it's releasing the trauma so so the
trauma is stored
and through this process it gets it in
some cases you could have an emdr
session and walk out feeling completely
different that day
interesting yeah it's exceptional so
that's been a really big part of my
recovery
emotional freedom technique what's that
um eft tapping so that's that's just for
the the why is it called emotional
freedom technique well the um the
founder of tapping named it emotional
freedom technique because what's
ultimately happening is like i said
earlier there's an energetic disturbance
so you're not necessarily tapping to
heal the phobia you're tapping to heal
the emotional disturbance that's
triggering the phobia okay you got it
and our so the one time that i saw
somebody do tapping they were getting
carsick
and they started
tapping and um so
is it
is it trying to get you into using a
sort of physical
stimulus to get you into a different
mental and emotional state is it meant
to draw your attention what what
you're tapping on different energy
meridians while you're talking about the
emotional disturbance similar to the
emdr
and uh that
that whole process of like the
acupressure and psych
psychotherapy kind of the the talk the
talking through while you have that
pressure point
is what deactivates that response that
that triggered response so you're trying
to disrupt that sort of a
biological process level to use my
language energy to use your language my
language in this case would be emotional
disturbance right so uh and with tapping
once again similar to emdr you don't
have to tap on the trauma you could just
tap on being carsick but tapping on
being carsick
could
activate a deeper level of healing even
if you're not going into exactly what
it's about does that make sense sure
yeah it's really
i mean i tap daily
and it the design of that is to
basically
intercept uh an impulse uh memory a sort
of body level feeling and begin to
create a new association is it meant to
guide you out of one mood into another
or that will happen like at the
beginning of tapping you have a most
pressing issue and you would like you
know my gut hurts or i'm i'm scared or
whatever or i'm nauseous
and then you rate it from
zero to ten ten being the highest and
when you're done tapping you you rate it
because there's this thing called the
apex effect which means that when when
you tap sometimes you can forget where
you were
meaning you forget where you are
physically or what you were just saying
you started at a ten and you get down to
a two you forget that you were ever out
of ten you're like no i was good the
whole time didn't do anything right so
the most pressing issue is what's what's
allowing us to get to
uh recognition of the of how well it
worked in five minutes or two minutes or
something it's very interesting so i saw
you do a live meditation one time very
very briefly and you said even in the 10
seconds or whatever that we just did
that i could feel an energetic shift
which meditation is something i have a
lot of experience with and it was really
life-changing for me
and it's one of those where
i will agree with you that meditation
really is for everybody and everybody
should be trying it and if you're not
getting benefits yet i would keep
practicing yeah just keep going um
that i understand sort of at a
physiological level i get how we're
going from the excitatory impulses of
the sympathetic nervous system or moving
into the parasympathetic nervous system
you you can literally feel yourself just
relaxing and changing um
are there other
things you do because i know that you're
an avid meditator as well i know that
you're really intentional about how you
begin your day what are some things that
you do to really sort of shape that
energy state anybody who's watching me
long enough knows i don't use that word
but i know that that uh i think makes a
lot of sense for you so
um yeah what would be the word that you
would use i'm all about biological
systems okay so from that standpoint and
look you're always very generous with
your language and you're always saying
that you know whatever usually when
referencing faith you say whatever shape
it takes for you yeah so in many ways
we're talking about the same thing just
in different you know it's just a
thousand people we're translators and
we're communicating it in the ways that
are relevant to us
the person that's watching you it's like
i recognize myself and him and i'm going
to follow that right so it's perfect
yeah so what are things that you do to
begin to shape that whether it's a
morning routine or meditation or
whatever else shifts your energy rapidly
one of the most
transformational things i've been gifted
with is
tm
transcendental meditation you use a
mantra yes i have a muscle which of
course you can't say i won't tell you
that's so interesting people really die
hard about that they do to you no way
would i ever tell you hell no it's my
mantra
and you know it's i'm always laughing
i'm like does everybody have the same
mantras without telling anyone
um you know i i was trained by the david
lynch foundation
so being trained in tm was really really
beneficial for my trauma it was really
beneficial for most importantly for my
nervous system so uh you know
i get what two 20-minute meditations in
every day what is the nature of tm
meditation i actually i know it by name
i know that it uses a mantra i've never
done it so i have no idea experientially
i've done mindfulness yeah and i've done
what i call just breathe yes it's all
kind of interconnected with tm
you have a mantra
and you repeat your mantra and you do
this for 20 minutes twice a day and the
mantra is sort of just a sound right
it's not like
uh gluten-free bread you're not saying
that overnight that's something that you
would understand
or something like that exactly yeah okay
so what's the idea behind the mantra is
it is it just sort of clearing the mind
yes so
you repeat your mantra and you repeat
your mantra and your your mantra and
that's a single pointed focus a mantra
is a single pointed focus
and when you start to notice yourself go
into what am i having for lunch or i'm
late for my meeting or wherever you're
going to go the simplicity is that you
notice it and then you just return to
your mantra the same as you would return
to your breath uh ultimately being in
that repetition of the mantra then you
can ultimately get to a place where
you're sort of in this in this
as i would say you know
spiritually aligned state
where you
are so released from thought that you're
that your nervous system can relax but
what i love about it is that i have an
anchor that i can continue to return to
and just return to and return to uh and
now because my practice is so strong i
can just sit in the back of an uber
close my eyes even if like there's crazy
music on or something and just right
away start to feel this just like deep
joy
and peace come in
and i also recognize that when i have a
tm meditation where i'm thinking about
thinking a lot thinking a lot that
that's okay that's for any meditation
that's an active meditation and that's
okay because whatever is coming up
during that active meditation is
unprocessed feelings that need to be
cleared and even if they're coming up as
like i'm mad that i ate that for
breakfast it's something deeper and it
needed to come up so you could clear it
so don't judge
what comes up in your meditation
i want to come back to
the things you do to shift your energy
but the the whole idea of judgment i
think is really really interesting so
you have said and i think very rightly
and very profoundly that okay look
you're always going to judge but you
want to
not believe it
how do you
how do you practice that how did you go
from judging yourself which i think is
maybe the most destructive how did you
go from that to realizing this is
actually just a story and i don't have
to believe it yeah the most important
book i've written
and it's not the most popular
is called judgment detox
and it's funny it's the one book that
most people don't finish not everybody
because there's some real fierce you
know spirit junkies out there that are
like i got this and i did this and
they'll come out to me and events and i
can see it in their eyes i can see it in
their eyes that they have practiced
these principles and i think that the
reason that people don't finish this
because it's hard work it's a commitment
and it's a mental reconditioning
and so it's it's much like what we were
talking about earlier you know
witnessing looking at the judgment
honoring the the the shame and the wound
that lives beneath the judgment seeing
someone for the first time forgiveness
is a huge part of this meditation is a
big part of this and it requires even
put eft in the book because it's such a
root cause condition that causes us to
judge
we judge because we are actually judging
a disowned part of our own shadow
when you say shadow do you mean in the
jungian sense yes and
you know the the the shadow side of us
meaning that when we uh the places that
we are unwilling to look at the ego side
the the part of us is driven by fear and
the
and the wounds that we have been
unwilling to re recognize
right the unwillingness to recognize
those wounds
and so in that in that state of judgment
we're often just
projecting
what it is that we don't want to
identify in ourselves
and so if it's you know some judging
with jealousy it's because we don't feel
we're good enough if it's judging
somebody for
uh having more of what you want you know
it's it's because you know you don't
identify as yourself of being worthy or
if it's judging somebody from the
standpoint of or not even somebody's
judging yourself
is just another form of addiction in
many ways
because it's it's a way of running from
what's actually there
interesting how
is it because you're saying that it
gives people something to obsess on and
focus on rather than deal with what's
really underneath it that's interesting
exactly right so
judgment is an addiction
so
i've see a lot of people in my life
close people family members that are
just like
pretty much judging all day long
judgment just like deeply deeply in
judgment
and what i also identify in that person
that someone that has not done any
personal growth work that someone who
has
not dealt with trauma from their
childhood someone who is living in fear
and the way that they're staying safe is
through judgment the same way somebody
else would be like i'm living in fear
and the way i'm staying safe is to
anesthetize with drugs and alcohol right
it's another form of addiction
that's interesting so for you the
definition of addiction is basically
something that you obsess on to allow
you to not deal with the things that are
knocking at your door anything that you
obsessively put in place of your
core emotions and feelings anytime
you're trying to anesthetize any time
you're using anything to avoid facing
the truth and i've been in sober
recovery for 14 years and i can really
honestly say that
it's trauma that leads us into addiction
what led you out i don't remember coming
across any big sort of rock bottom story
maybe i just missed it
it's because it was 14 years ago and
that's what i was talking about that
i've had other rock bottoms is that
but what was the thing that allowed you
to flip the switch
so i was 25 years old when i got clean
and um i had
at the time as you know i had not
identified my trauma i didn't know why i
was using i had a whole story in my head
about how perfect my childhood was
that's the thing that we do when you're
traumatized as a child you're like build
a story around your life like oh
everything was perfect i was good right
and so i was like why would i ever
become an addict
well now i know but
uh i was i was really really heavily
trying to prove myself to the world i
was at 21 years old i started a business
that was a pr business representing
night clubs
and so
that was the perfect place to run and
hide and of course you know that would
lead down the road of in my case cocaine
which was my drug of choice because i
wanted to be in control and so uh
cocaine is a is a great drug that can
take you down fast right you know um and
it's and it's also you know i feel
blessed that cocaine was my drug of
choice because it's easier to get off of
it's not necessarily easy but it's
easier than opioids and you know heroin
and what we're a lot of people are
dealing with today
and so uh
i i actually hit such a bottom
where i was sitting in my studio
apartment it was like i don't know 5 a.m
staring at the stack of self-help books
next to my bed because i was seeking
seeking seeking all throughout my
addiction seeking and looking at those
self-help books and thinking to myself
i'm so far away from that
but that's i know that's who i am
and i sat on the floor of my studio
apartment and i said to myself
god universe whoever is out there i need
a miracle
i was just i sent out the call i need a
miracle
and that day i
heard a voice of my intuition my
inspiration it's really moving to me
right now because i just celebrated 14
years congratulations thank you uh the
inner voice of you can call it
inspiration or intuition i call it god
said to me
get clean and you will live a life
beyond your wildest dreams
and that day i
went to a recovery program on my own i
walked right in and i got sober that day
and i've been clean ever since
and
yeah last two weeks ago i celebrated 14
years and my sobriety gave me everything
because my sobriety was
getting clean you put down the drink the
drug but if you're getting clean with
the with with really good spiritual
guidance it also opens you up to a
higher power of your own understanding
and then that
dictates the rest of your life why do
you think a higher power is so useful
i've heard that spoken about a lot with
recovery that the notion of letting go
and relying on something bigger than
yourself is
somehow very very useful
it's not just for getting sober it's for
for life in my opinion uh and like i say
i love the language of the 12 steps the
higher power of your own understanding
because we were told or in my books i
was saying this is your god or this is
your angel everyone be like you know
screw you and i think what's working so
well is just saying you decide i'm here
to crack you open and you decide once
you start to develop a spiritual
relationship of your own understanding
you'll notice wild synchronicities in
your life you'll notice
invisible doors open for you and even
though you're a science guy you have a
lot of god in your life whether you
realize it or not because you wouldn't
be sitting here right now
being driven by this great force of
inspiration doing the major things that
you've done in this world if you hadn't
been tapped into that source in a way
that you understand okay so maybe you
find it through fitness maybe you
thought you know i'm sure that when
you're in in your in your mode in your
zone in that flow
you feel a different energy within you
something i do oh here's the thing
i love coming to consensus that is like
a deep drive within me but i also um
it
the truth is that the way that you and i
would translate it would be so different
yeah that in some ways it will have
different outcomes so for instance we'll
take patience i know you
encourage people in the book super
attractor to be patient it's one of the
chapters
and i have
railed against patients
in
my
social content and all that and
i rail against patients for a certain
type of person i don't think everybody
should take my advice i think people who
want a stress-free the easier gentler
way to live should probably avoid me in
virtually everything that i say
because i'm not leading people down that
path yeah um
so it's interesting i so agree with you
on like our ability to shift our energy
and stuff i think you're more patient
than you think let me let me let me let
me like completely reorg this okay i
will first have to ask you to define
patience because if we simply disagree
on the definition then we're ultimately
saying the same thing
patience is faith patience without faith
you can't be patient faith in whatever
it is that you're doing in life whatever
it is that you desire and so the reason
that you have
so this fast-paced way of doing things
and get it done and allow it to have
it's because you're faithful it's
because you believe in it i don't agree
okay go ahead so
i'm going to keep pushing back no please
i love this this is so cool i know that
everything i say i say in good faith so
i think that you're bringing something
beautiful to the world i think you are
beyond sincere in your desire to help
people and you take so many amazing
steps to do that
um so
my thinking is that one i don't have
faith in a higher power or even
necessarily myself beyond
that i will keep putting energy and
effort into something yeah but i spend
so many mental cycles trying to figure
out how i'm wrong that that is the
birthplace of my
my fear of patience when people
if they're if they're trying to
accomplish something extraordinary let's
define that because i don't think that
it is
a necessary path i don't think anybody
has a fertility or for finding a partner
yet is different right um it probably
would be if somebody were your own story
about fertility i think is a very
powerful example of the right move there
is patience yeah patience as i tell
people not to be patient but i think in
that particular case the relaxation that
is needed that's that's yeah biology
because i want to talk about like that
kind of stuff but i also really am
digging what you're saying so
i i see something that i need to say
please so
you're saying i have this way that i
unpack things correct me if i'm wrong
and find the fault so that i can make
sure that it's going to be this elevated
thing that's going to show up in my life
is that correct um i don't understand
the use of the word elevating okay
impactful i am i won't even go that far
i will just say that impact happens to
be my goal yeah but i'm actually driven
by goals yep goals do not have an
infinite number of paths to achieving
them there are only certain paths that
will work yeah and so i think people are
the reason that most dreams never come
true and this i think we will disagree
on at least in the words that we use the
reason i think most dreams don't come
true is that people never develop the
skill set they need to actually get
there
so saying the same thing in many ways so
my thing there is
when somebody is patient and they think
things will just come to them it's
beyond false but when i hear you say
things like you have to just go i'm like
okay that i'm with a thousand percent
here we go you are practicing in your
life a principle that i have in super
attractor called spiritually aligned
action and it's a method of creating but
creating from forget the word spiritual
alignment because that's going to take
you out you know
joy so you have fun unpacking things you
have fun reaching for goals it's like
it's your driving force in life it it it
wakes you up in the morning or wakes you
up in the middle of the night with
excitement it's what it's what has
created this right part of it okay okay
it's joyful for you it can be okay and
enjoy follow the fun which is one of
your maybe not mantras but like i love
that notion yes so my
entire book super attractor
it has the premise that it's good to
feel good and when you feel good you are
a super attractor and so you could be
hustling right and feeling good and
still like working where i work a lot
like i hustle at times right
and it's when i'm in that joy and when
i'm allowing inspiration to move through
me that i'm taking what i refer to as
spiritually aligned action so i could be
doing way more than imaginable than the
average person which i can do i have the
capacity to do more in one day or one
hour than people could do in two months
okay that is just because i'm so
inspired by it because i'm so psyched
about it and that's what you're doing
okay and so when i say you are actually
act actually living in a patient state
because you believe in what you're doing
because you have joy
that's coming through with what you're
doing and so when you take action from a
place of spiritual alignment okay and
that spiritual alignment comes with
making sure that the desired goal is
back with service and love which i know
is 100
right that's correct i know that i
wouldn't be sitting here if it wasn't
the truth that so that's number one the
first step of spiritual alignment the
second step is believing and i know you
believe in yourself because we would not
be sitting here if you didn't i believe
in humans okay you believe in humans and
you believe that you are here to
facilitate service and love for humans
yeah
uh now you're getting into meant to be
which i don't believe in okay so i have
chosen that path that's right okay so
that's that's the path i've chosen so
you believe right
believe in what believe that the actions
that you're taking have purpose
yes i have imbued the actions that i
take with purpose and i do think that we
have innate reward systems for helping
the group
and so being of service to other people
is neurologically rewarding whether you
want it to be or not do you believe
in that yes yeah in whatever form it's
right for you and then the third step is
take action from a place of spiritual
alignment so when you take actions right
when you pick up the phone you're about
to make that big call that's going to
begin quest right or
start impact theory
you feel good right when you make that
call i probably i mean certainly back at
quests i would have felt terrifyingly
anxious but anxious but excited yeah
yeah i don't want to get lost in whether
i was excited or not because everything
you've said up to this point is
wonderful i think the only sort of edge
case moment where and i don't know if it
matters yeah
but the edge case where i would say we
disagree is is the notion of patience so
there is a part to
the law of attraction where it's like
hey the universe is actively working for
you i don't believe that i think the
universe is neutral it is beyond
indifferent to what you want but you
believe that what you are is is calling
and what what you are
i don't understand the question so that
like the energy that you're putting out
maybe just or the intentions or the
purpose that you're putting out
is coming back to you do you believe
that just i think humans will reflect it
back so if you are
rad to be around and this is straight
out of your book yeah if you are you
don't use these words but if you're rad
to be around people are going to want to
be around you you're much more perfect
yeah you're much more likely to get
people that want to team up with you and
then a lot more things become so i think
we agree on so much so just on the the
patience thing so that we close the loop
on that
when it comes to patience
i think that the reason people's dreams
don't come true is they never acquire
the skills to actually be able to
execute against it yeah because it's
like building a house yeah wanting it is
not enough you have to go become an
architect we are 100 on the same page
about that this this chapter in super
attractors called spiritually aligned
action is not a chapter on just sitting
on your ass and meditating and thinking
it's going to come to you it's a chapter
on taking action like gabby bernstein
wouldn't be sitting here right now
having authored seven books in eight
years if i didn't take some
action so right here's i'll give you the
language that i use that people often
confuse for patience and you're gonna be
tempted for a minute to believe that
we're saying the same thing
so
i really really believe when you look at
the world at large and maybe we disagree
on this but when i look at the world at
large yeah the
vast majority of humanity never make
their dreams come true the vast majority
of humanity live in a dark and
terrifying place they die before they
ever figure it out so i have given my
life over to asking the question why the
is that true yeah yeah because if
everything is working for you and it's
all got then more people and i'll say
i'll be generous and say 10
find a life that is really joyful on
balance no one's ever gonna have perfect
joy i certainly do not
but
on balance so all right we're talking
about a 90 failure rate like there's
something is working so actively against
us that we have to find a way out of
that now i will say what is working
against you is evolutionary pressures
you've been pressured evolutionary lee
to survive not to thrive okay so i think
the human brain
is
working against people in many many ways
and if they don't understand that they
get trapped one of the ways that i think
it's working against them is you have
the biological imperative to conserve
calories
which means be lazy it's another way of
saying that so you get really hungry you
you get tremendous sexual desire and
then you crack over and you go do
something about it for the most part you
kind of just want to chill yeah so
given those biological realities what
i'm saying is if somebody decides they
want to do something extraordinary with
their life which they don't need to but
if they decide that they want to do that
the amount of inertia that you have to
overcome this is quite literally the
second law of thermodynamics states all
systems move towards chaos yeah now the
only way according to physics
to bypass that is to pour energy into
the system okay so we know your life is
moving towards chaos as all systems do
the only way to overcome that is to pour
energy into your life
patience to me is about waiting it's
about
relaxing it's about surrender now i'm
definitely using your words so once you
tell somebody to get into that state it
will open a certain channel for them
that channel having a stress-free life
finding beauty in their life connecting
with other human beings really getting
in touch with a spiritual nature inside
being so quiet you can hear yourself
those things are so important
i'm not in any way shape or form
diminishing them what i'm saying is
there are already people that speak to
what to do with that path yeah
i want to be over here you want to build
something extraordinary now i'm your guy
right right and and i will tell you
you're going to dip into these moments
you're going to have to you're going to
have to learn to meditate you're
probably even going to want to start
your day there but in terms of getting
the skill set and executing agreements
against a grand vision
you will have to come at everything with
so much energy and intensity
yeah to overcome the inertia that is
inevitable because all systems move
towards chaos so you were fighting
against chaos yeah so
in that particular lane
you cannot patience will be the death of
you will be the death of your dream we
have a different definition of patience
but first question i have to ask you is
um once you started meditating regularly
did you notice more successes or ease or
uh that that things were happening
faster in any way in your life i noticed
a profound change in my ability to think
clearly yeah i noticed a profound change
in my ability to enjoy my life i noticed
a profound reduction in my anxiety okay
okay and did that impact your purpose
and your goals it made everything in my
life better so we're saying the exact
same thing that we are not and i could
feel the trap i was being set up for but
so i think i think it is
the entire
universe of meditation of relaxation of
letting go
there is so much power in that at a
biological level and if people do not
learn to do that they're never going to
be able to hear themselves think right
and so but it didn't slow you down right
no it sped me up that's what i'm talking
about but now so here's often is speed
up by slowing down all right dive into
that time okay so speed up by slowing
down i have i have created far more and
i'm not tooting my own horn i'm just
trying to be a powerful example of what
it looks like to live a spiritually
aligned life right i've created far more
in the last 15 years than i think people
could do in a lifetime okay and that's
not made major i don't want to sound
like i'm being egotistical because every
single person that is is watching right
now every single person has the capacity
to be this way we all are super
attractors is what i refer to okay and
the reason i've been able to do that is
because i've had a foundational practice
of tuning my energy making sure that i
am clearing whatever is in the way the
blocks the belief systems the the you
know neural programming that has blocked
me 100 the chaos the choice for chaos
that's not supporting me
that that devotion and commitment to to
slowing that down to undoing that fear
to grounding my energy has given has has
given me far more energy to do the
things i need to do and so i show up i
show up i ha like i don't actually like
the word hustle anymore because i'm
actually priding myself on on how
relaxed i am but i want to tell you
something this most recent book launch
i've launched many books and i've
launched them with a lot of stress and a
lot of like you know force and want to
get that out and i want to be number one
new york times best seller and you know
there was always love and service behind
the books because they wouldn't have had
the success they had if it wasn't there
but there was also a lot of struggle
because i was in the wrong mindset and
this book launch i lived and practiced
what i'm preaching in super attractor
and i didn't really care like the the
biggest goal was to serve souls the
biggest goal was to help people feel
good
period end of story this book in the
last two weeks has had far more success
than any of my other books and when my
my publishers called me and said oh my
god you're on the new york times list i
was like i didn't even realize it was
wednesday like i didn't even know that
this i forgot every year before be like
it's wednesday when's the list out i
didn't even realize that it was
wednesday you know i didn't care i
didn't care all i cared about was that
people were being served and so uh the
and but the bigger message here is that
i really made relaxation and uh and and
calm and serenity and a groundedness my
highest priority in my life at this
stage but that doesn't mean that i
didn't get on every call with my team
and look at the ads and that i didn't
care about the way that we were
positioning messaging and that i didn't
get on facebook live and do facebook
live i didn't show up here today to
share the message i did it all
but i did it with grace and ease
and it had far more success
as long as we don't use the word
patience i'm with everything we just
said okay but i i get and this is one of
those things where
the nuance sort of is people hate the
word
people hate it i think people
like the word patients no no when i've
been giving my talks on super tractor
and i get to that spiritually aligned
action method and the fourth step by the
way which we never got to is patience
because you weren't even gonna go there
um
that's i say patience the entire
audience like oh
what do you think they're struggling
with people wanna well a few things one
people have a belief system that if i
don't make it happen it won't happen
right and so they think they have to
hustle and push to control to make it
happen and you know very well that when
you were in that mind there might have
been times in your life where you were
in that mindset but not as inspired or
not as faithful that would fall
apart right because you're forcing it
you're pushing it i know for myself i
can say that anything that i've pushed
pushed pushed to happen has uh has been
not correct you know things would fall
apart it wouldn't have success it
wouldn't you know wouldn't be rec it
wouldn't work okay and so i think that
people really dwell in the belief system
particularly in america that if if i
don't make it happen it's not going to
happen so patience is the opposite of
that and is terrifying to that belief
system so people would say hell no
that's not true for me
i also think that you know people don't
trust they don't have the belief system
that i know you have which there's trust
that that if i create this it will be
and that it's going to have purpose and
it's going to serve and it's going to
make an impact even if it's even if it's
a little difficult to make happen it's
going to happen it's going to be great
and they don't have that belief system
and without that belief system how could
you possibly be patient
because you're constantly chasing
something to feel good
yeah they're constantly chasing someone
to feel good i want to ask you what do
you think about self-worth yeah where
does it come from how do we build it
people get up in my audiences and they
say to me you know i don't know why like
i'm trying so hard to attract that
partner i'm trying so hard to you know
make my business so excellent
the thing that's underneath all of that
is a feeling of unworthiness
the reasons that we don't thrive in our
lives in our careers and our in our
health is a feeling of unworthiness
and that's that's that often stems back
to a traumatic event or an experience in
life where we in some way chose a belief
system that said i am unlovable
and i'm not good enough
i like what you just said we chose a
belief
system tell me more you know if we've
had a experience in our history where
our father left then you know men always
leave and that's our story up until
we're you know dead or that you know we
grew up with no money that money is
going to be a struggle and we believe
that's the belief system until we choose
to see it differently i grew up in a
home where there was no a lot of
financial insecurity and when i was 21
years old
i was like i made a decision i was on my
own i was you know out of college i'm
going to support myself and i got to
make some money and i was promoting
parties at nightclubs my cousin owned
some clubs and i started promoting
parties and one night you know and i was
like oh yeah i can totally do this right
i can totally do this i can get my
girlfriends to say gabby at the door
like 100 but i i you know i was like i
can do this i can i can really give
myself the um the ability to earn some
money here and then the first night i
promote the party my cousin handed me a
thousand dollars cash and i was like in
that moment i had a quantum shift i said
i know how to make money
and i'm going to keep making money
well that could have still happened but
i could have chosen to stay stuck in the
belief system that it's not you know
it's not easy to make money and i'm
going to have financial insecurity for
the rest of my life and that no matter
how much moments of money that would
come into my life i could have deflected
it all but that moment i said money is
not my issue
i will be supported i can and
i can make money i know i can make money
so the the i guess the point is is that
in in any instant we can choose again
and that's a method in the book we can
choose again and to you know to your
language it's a mental reconditioning
talk to people about the choose again
method um it's it's beginning to notice
those fear-based belief systems or those
um on feelings of unworthiness as you
said before or
the stories that we have on repeat those
those negative thought systems that we
have on repeat that keep us stuck all
day long right and for for some people
you've done a lot of personal growth
work and there's just one lingering one
or two or three lingering ones and you
recognize them and you the first step is
to notice the thought
and notice how it makes you feel because
when you recognize that it's not making
you feel good then you know you are out
of alignment with your super attractor
power right
the second step is profound it's to
forgive yourself for having the thought
so sometimes when we have that
fear-based thought we actually believe
that we are the thought we are having i
am not worthy i am not good enough i am
overweight i'm a you know i'm a piece of
whatever it is okay and that's a
big one i hear people say a lot i think
i'm a piece of how horrible is that
that's when i i carry for i still i'm
still working on it i may really yeah
and so
forgive yourself for having that thought
and when you forgive yourself for having
the thought what happens is is that you
can now recognize
that
the forgiveness dissolves it because it
makes you realize that i am not that
i am not that person that's unworthy i
forgive that i forgive that belief
system about myself or you can forgive
the thought altogether
and the third step is to choose again
and this is where you start to reach for
the next best feeling thought and so
when you're stuck in in a low vibe
thought of i'm i'm sick and i can't get
well and then you forgive yourself for
having the thought oh god you know i
went there again let's let's return this
around and then you start to reach for
the next best feeling thought you would
reach for well i have access to podcasts
about health or i have uh i i do i do
have some awareness about diet and i'm
going to be able to you know read that
free ebook that so and so put up and
that ebook will put me on the right path
and these little thoughts that you
believe in start to guide you out and
the more we proactively practice these
three steps the more we literally change
the way we believe
yeah that that to me is so profound that
you can actively choose to think
different things and that in thinking
different things that changes the way
that you actually feel
i think that cycle is really really
important
where can they find out more about you
gabbybernstein.com
nice and easy nice and straightforward
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
it's a big one
i like the sound yeah yeah
well here there's a little backstory for
one second about it so i was i'm working
really
really working to relieve myself from
trauma
and be free
be truly free
and i said to my
my therapist i said i don't think that
99 of people can get through this
and it's kind of like what you were
saying like you know 90 people don't
actually have that success that you want
for them i don't think that 99 people
and she said 99.9 percent of people
don't get through this
and my impact is to help create systems
and and help people face their shame and
write books to help people
truly begin to heal
from traumatic experiences that have
dictated their lives
i love that
it's interesting because deepak chopra
actually referred to your book he didn't
say instruction manual but that was sort
of the intimation which i like a lot
all right guys definitely check this out
if i love that she called herself a
translator if she is translating things
in a way that makes sense to you you
will love everything she has written it
is very clear very articulate step by
step tells you what to do how to do it
it's all about helping you get the life
that you want waking up she's referred
to it many times as being that of seeing
a world anew realizing that you have
choices
it's incredibly powerful if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
gabby thank you that was wonderful so if
someone is having fear
or panic or worry get to when was the
first time you felt this way
what was really going on in your life
at that time to show them that that's
not
what's happening now